# AND1-Text-to-Speech-App
🤖This app is created for the Android Developement 1 Course.
The idea is to create an app that will give the user audio based on the inputed text ✍. The audio will be generated by a text-to-speech API 🎙, and it will be available for download 🔽. The app will contain multiple views with smooth navigation. It will be possible to see your previous downloads in form of a list and play them. The data will be stored and handled using Firebase🔥.

App demo ⬇▶
https://youtu.be/zZKl9AF1o2k


- [X] As a user I want to be able to input text and receive the speech audio.
- [X] As a user I want to be able to download the output of the inputed text locally.
- [X] As a user I want to be able to save the recording on the cloud so that I can retreive them on different devices
- [X] As a user I want to be able to navigate my previous inputs
- [X] As a user I want to be able to delete recordings so that my recordings list is up-to-date
- [X] As a user I want to use the app with an intuitive design
- [X] As a user I want to be able to choose from multiple voices that will say what I input
- [X] As a user I want to be able to create an account so that the app stores my recordings
- [X] Aa a user I want to be able to log in so that I can access my recordings
- [X] As a user I want to be able to edit my data so that my profile is up-to-date
- [X] As a user I want to log out in case I want to switch accounts
- [ ] As a user I want to be able to recover my password, so that I don't loose my acccount data



Vlad Lazar AND1 Text-To-Speech-App Reflection

 
Speechful
The app idea started when I was making a video for the innovation week prototype, and I was in need of a reliable text-to-speech synthesizer. Most of my findings were struggling with text of bigger sizes and it was necessary to truncate the text and have a lot of time wasted in that process. 
The original app idea involved choosing between different popular voices (ex. Morgan Freeman, Elon Musk, etc.), but later in the project, I found out that the original API had only 25 free requests in the free plan, therefore it was necessary to switch for a similar idea which was to select from multiple languages instead of voices. 

It is possible to select from English, German, French, Spanish, and Italian and play the desired synthesized audio, and save it to the library. The library of recordings is stored on the cloud using Firebase Realtime Database. There also has been implemented a login system using firebase, which will allow retrieving the recordings if it is decided to switch devices or accounts whatever the reason.

The UI was designed to follow material 3 guidelines, each view being held by a fragment. The navigation is done in the login menu through tab navigations that can be selected on the top of the view or through a swipe to go between signing in or registering a new account. In the app itself, the navigation is done with a bottom navigation bar that holds three items: The library fragment, the create audio fragment, and the profile fragment.

The library fragment has the purpose of displaying the saved recordings in form of a list in a recycler view. The recycler view is inverted so that the latest recording appears on the top. On start, the app asks for permission to access the internal storage, so that it is possible to click save on a recording from the recycler view and save it locally to the android phone in a “.wav” format. There is also a delete button to remove a recording from the list. Using Firebase Realtime Database allows it to conveniently update the cloud storage live. 

In the create audio fragment there is an image view and a spinner displaying the selected language. The language can be changed both by clicking on the spinner or on the image view containing the flag. After inputting the desired text, it is possible to click on the play button and listen to the recording. If you are pleased with the result, you can choose to save it. 

Lastly, the profile view has the purpose to display and edit the user data. There is also a button to log out the user and navigate to the login menu.
The app has been built following MVVM architecture with cloud storage, and locally in the device files. 

For the project’s future, it is necessary to perform UI and unit testing, as well as some bug fixes that occur when logging in and displaying profile info, and switching to dark mode.
In conclusion, I am happy with what I achieved working by myself on the app. Delivering a product that I find useful and nice to use. I have learned a lot and I am looking forward to continuing programming in Android. I found it interesting to get some experience working with non-relational databases and cloud storage.
